My name is Carleigh Bailey.
I work at St. Mary's Academy.
I'm the PhyEd teacher here,
and it's my third year working here.
I was planning to talk about,
the teachers
that were actually planning
for our Eagle block.
Essentially, we've gotten to meet
a few times outside of school.
And during school hours.
But there's a group of about 4 or 5 of us
that have,
collaborated together
to create different,
hands on learning experiences
that are in an actual class format.
Not a
textbook class that we've seen
in the past, not math or science.
It's we've made an outdoor learning.
We've made,
the Art of sound was one of them.
We have a culinary one.
We have had an entrepreneurship one.
So basically our meeting times
as teachers is to plan
what that actually looks like
when we are, with the kids and
it's really
it's really nice because as a teacher,
you don't get time to collaborate
with other teachers.
So as the for Ed teacher, I'm
the Ed teacher.
I don't necessarily get to collaborate
with others
like every other teacher in here.
So it's nice to have designated time
to, plan that out.
And I've been working
with the music teacher,
so that's a complete shift for me.
But I love the opportunity to do that,
and it's definitely,
it's nice to set goals
with other teachers and really focus on
what's best for the kids.
The most effective part of our planning
was when we actually sat down
and talked about,
what does day one one hour look like?
Okay, we're going to say expectations.
We're going to go over what
this looks like,
what you're going to be marked on.
Because we've actually found a way
to incorporate it with the wellness
curriculum.
So they will receive a mark
for all of these blocks on their report
card, because that's what we found
was missing from the last block.
As middle schoolers, if they're
doing anything, they want to know why,
they want to know.
Am I going to get a mark for this?
Because if they're not, then effort levels
differ and focus levels differ as well.
So once we've told them
that they will actually be
getting a mark for this,
there is a shift in mindset for some.
And I think, that was essentially
the start of all of this,
is to create meaningful experiences
for the students, for the staff.
So that was missing from the first part.
But now we've actually created a way
that they will receive a mark for it.
So I know that has helped.
I really wish I had this
when I was in school
because it's nice for them
to not just be sitting
and getting lectured at,
getting talked at.
We are trying to make it
independent on their part.
So guiding them,
we still we found that we gave
a little bit of freedom at the start,
and then we had to take some steps back
and realize,
okay, middle school,
they they need some guidance.
Now, while it's a new
it's new for everyone.
So we're learning alongside
alongside the kids, which is really nice.
And we've been able to get their feedback.
The teachers feedback,
and we're growing it together,
which I've never been part
of something like that.
And so I it's really special
and I'm excited to see it continue,
because we've only been doing this
for a couple months, and it's already
looking completely different than what
we initially thought it would look like.
If another school wants to implement
something similar.
I think they need to start with
low expectations,
because we had a lot of big ideas
at the start of ours,
and we had to hone it in
and make attainable goals.
So we started with, wanting it to
our block, and we found that was too long.
So we made it a one hour block.
But I think my recommendation
to other schools would be to start,
start small, start basic,
and then you can grow that as you go. But.
That's the advice I would have wanted
to hear from another school starting.
This is remember that you're working
with middle schoolers.
It's not going to go as planned
even when it is very planned out.
And start small.
And then once that works,
you can change it.
And it doesn't have to be something
that was set for the entire year.
Our block that we planned for
was six weeks ish,
and then we met again
and changed it for the next block.
So I think having small increments
and reassessing and changing your goals,
changing your vision
a little bit was really beneficial
for our Eagle block here at Saint Mary's.
So what I would recommend
we started at initiating, right.
Every school is initiating
this project and
I really feel like we are
we have moved into developing and
it's it's even progressing past.
But I think when I, when I personally
look at it, I think, okay, next year,
if there was new staff in the building,
could this still run as is?
And I think
if the teachers had the time to plan
and if senior teachers had the opportunity
to now, let those staff members
know how beneficial it is,
because this year we went into it blind.
We didn't have anyone to say
it works really well.
The kids are going to love it.
It's it's going to be good.
We didn't have any of that.
So I think moving forward now
we have people that have experienced it.
So they will be able to help next year
if we keep those staff members
in the building and hopefully advocate
for the necessity of this.
And I at other schools, I think
now that, like, we can advocate for it
and talk to other schools.
So I think that's really important
to collaborate with schools that are also
participating in the LDR just to see what
they're doing, because I know
we rack
our brains and think, what can we do?
But if someone's already doing it,
we don't need to reinvent the wheel.
And if it's working for them, it could
probably work for us or tweaked a little.
It could work in our building.
So I think collaboration,
not just with our own teachers,
but with other teachers
that want to implement
this in their building
is really important for this project.
So right now
we're in the second Eagle block
that we've been doing
and my group for the whole.
So we have different sectors
we can choose from.
And we chose outdoor learning.
So right now
we are making a type of shelter.
Like there is kind of a small example.
And then we're going to we have to find
all our things are in a cut.
Like we take only fallen trees
and then we have to find our
like little place,
which is about 6 to 8ft length.
And, right now,
like I was just cutting this tree,
we have like saws,
we have all the stuff we need.
So and this is just like something we do
every Friday and Thursday
for a second period, for about an hour.
And so far I've kind of learned
I've learned quite a bit,
like we learned how to tie
these like different types of knots.
We learned,
I think three different types.
So some that'll be really useful
if you ever need them.
So I find this is like a really good way
to, like,
learn some skills that you might
not just learn regularly in school.
And, I think this is fun.
This is like, a very fun experience
because I don't know, many like,
not my friends.
I go to other schools,
they don't really do this.
And it's very fun.
And I like to see
a lot of people out here.
They enjoy it. It's fun.
It's a good way to like, learn,
like I said.
And overall it's
just a really great experience.
I always like to build stuff and
to this year
it was my first year going here.
So, this middle school block
sort of changed my life.
So it's something new that I like.
And also I like adventures
and grab some wood, build stuff.
It's fun.